ENDOC-694 update for Hub3.1 (#717)
entando/entando-docs: vuepress/docs/next/tutorials/solution/entando-hub.md

---

# Entando Hub

> An Entando Hub enables teams to share components across their organization and between Entando Applications. It can be installed in Entando 6.3.2 or higher and includes API-level integration with the Entando 7 App Builder.

Reviewer: Hub 3.x uses the v5 format so it can no longer be installed in Entando 6.
```suggestion
An Entando Hub enables teams to share components across their organization and between Entando Applications. It can be installed in any Entando 7+ instance and includes API-level integration with the App Builder.
```

* Administrator can create and manage users, categories, and organizations. 
* Authors and managers have varying [levels of access](#roles) to create and manage entries, otherwise called bundle groups.
* Each catalog can be [connected directly to an App Builder](#add-a-catalog-as-a-registry-in-your-app-builder) instance for easy access.

![Hub UI](./hub-images/hub-ui.png)

### User Management
Only the Hub admin has the authorization to create and manage users. 
  1. Log into your Keycloak admin console 
  2. Go to the `Users` section from the left navigation bar and add a new user. Enter the relevant identity information. 
  3. Once saved, go to the `Role Mapping` tab and assign the correct role under `Client Role` `pn-152edaba-0a2ba8fb-entando-entando-hub-catalog-ms-server`
    * for an author, assign `eh-author`
    * for a manager, assign `eh-manager`
  4. Log in to the Hub UI as an admin 
  5. Go to `User Management` and click `Add User`
  6. Choose the desired user and select an organization from the drop-down list. If the organization is not available, go to Organization Management to add it.

>   7. Note that an admin user needs to belong to an organization as well, especially for private catalogs that require an API key. 

Author: Note that a user, including the admin user, needs to belong to an organization to generate API keys required for private catalogs

### Generate an API Key
Private catalogs have the option to utilize an API key instead of user ID specifications for access. The API key can be made mandatory for adding the catalog as a registry in the App Builder. 
1. Make sure the user, including an admin, had been assigned to the organization with the private catalog.
2. From the Hub UI homepage, click on the gear icon right of the `Add +` button and select `API Key Management`.
3. Click `Generate API Key`, enter a name, and confirm with the blue generate button. Save the key for future reference.

### Add a Catalog as a Registry in your App Builder
Any enterprise Hub instance can be accessed from the Entando App Builder of another Entando Application. Configure the App Builder to access the desired catalog via the endpoint `BASEURL/entando-hub-api/appbuilder/api`, where the BASEURL is the address for the Entando Application. 

1. Go to the Hub from the left navigation bar in the App Builder and click `Select Registry` 
2. Choose `New Registry` from the drop-down menu
3. Enter a name and URL for the catalog.

>      * The address for private catalog follows the same pattern as noted above, but with an added ID number. To find the ID number  in this format: `BASEURL/entando-de-app/en/entando_hub.page#/catalog/YOUR-CATALOGID#/`.  

Reviewer: How does a user find the ID number in the Hub UI? Seems a bit of guidance may be needed.

1. Go to Organization Management from the top menu
2. Click `Add Organization +`, enter the relevant information in the pop-up window, and click `Save`
3. The new organization will appear in the current list. Click on the kebab menu to the right of the organization and select `Create Private Catalog`. 
A key icon will appear next to the private catalog. To go directly to this catalog, there is a link under the same kebab menu. 

### Generate an API Key
API access to private catalogs requires the use of an API key instead of user credentials. When connecting a registry from the App Builder, the API key is required to configure a private catalog.
1. API Keys are attached to a specific user account so login as a user assigned to the organization of the private catalog.
2. From the Hub UI homepage, click on the gear icon right of the `Add +` button and select `API Key Management`.
3. Click `Generate API Key`, enter a name, and confirm with the blue generate button. Save the key for future reference.

### Add a Catalog as a Registry in your App Builder

> Any enterprise Hub instance can be accessed from the Entando App Builder of another Entando Application. Configure the App Builder to access the desired catalog via the endpoint `BASEURL/entando-hub-api/appbuilder/api`, where the BASEURL is the address for the Entando Application. 

Reviewer 2: yes Nathan you are right, the new endpoint must respect the format `BASEURL/entando-hub-application-152edaba/entando-hub-catalog-ms/appbuilder/api` where `BASEURL` is the hostname of the Entando application. Probably I forgot to add it to the relevant ricket

1. Go to the Hub from the left navigation bar in the App Builder and click `Select Registry` 
2. Choose `New Registry` from the drop-down menu
3. Enter a name and the access URL for the catalog.
     * Private Catalog
        1. The access URL for a private catalog follows the pattern noted above, but with an added ID number from the catalog's HTTP address. Go to the published catalog page from the App Builder and find the address in the browser. The number after `/catalog/` is `YOUR-CATALOG-ID#`.  

>         2. The URL to access the catalog is `BASEURL/entando-hub-api/appbuilder/api/?catalogId=YOUR-CATALOG-ID#`  

Reviewer: It looks like `/entando-hub-api/` has to change to `/entando-hub-application-152edaba/entando-hub-catalog-ms/`
CC: @firegloves @jyunmitch 

I wish we'd kept the ingress path in place so we could control the path in the entando.json but I think this is okay right now.
